# COMP 2113 Project: Sonar Game

## Project Memeber
Yung Tsz Wo Richard (the writer of this document)


UID: 3035051943

There is only one person in this group because another groupmate dropped the course without any notice.

## Game Description

This is a text-based game called "Sonar".
It is a one-person turn-based game that requires the player to find the hidden treasures given a 2D grid.
First, the player is required to input the size of a 2D grid as the map of the game.
And then the player needs to input the number of the treasures crates and sonars which are used to "detect" the crates on the map.

Every turn, the player place a sonar by designating the x-y coordinates on the map. If there is a treasure crate nearby,
a number,which represent the distance between the crates and the sonar, will show up on the sonar. Below is an example. 


e.g.


C ~ ~ ~ ~

~ ~ ~ ~ ~

~ ~ 2 ~ ~

~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 

~ ~ ~ ~ ~

Suppose 'C' represents where the hidden treasure is at, '~' represents the unrevealed grids of the map, 
and '2' is where the player put her sonar. The '2' indicates that the treasure crate, 'C', is two cells away.


Repeat the process until either all the treasure are found or the sonars run out.


##  Features implemented


(Here are some of the features of this game, the number at the end of each one refers to the coding requirement of this project. See the reference below this section.)


1. Randomly generated game elements (Point 1: random game sets)

Once the player enters the number of the crates, they will be randomly generated and distributed onto the map.

2. 2D Array of char as the grid of the map (Point 2: data structures for storing game status)

I choose to use a 2D array of char ( point to point to char) to mimic the grids of the map. This 2D array in turns stores all the location of the sonars and the crates generated by the program. 

3. Dynamic memory allocation for data sets and events (Point 3: dynamic memory managment)

The program employs the dynamic memory allocation technique to create dynamic arrays that can increase or shrink in size on demand during run-time. Specifically, the map grids and the locations of the treasure crates are stored in dynamic arrays so that the player can determine their sizes.

4. Game stats saving and loading (Point 4: file input/output)

The program makes use of the file input and output system to save or load the map from another file.

5. Usage of arrays, pass by reference, pointer to pointers, etc (Point 2 & 5)

In other to preserve the modularity of the program, functions and different types of data structures are used to make the communications between differnet functions or program snippets run seamlessly, without using too much global varaibles so that readabiliy is maintained.


## Code Requirement (reference)

1. Generation of random game sets or events

2. Data Structures for storing game status

3. Dynamic memory management

4. File input/output (e.g. for loading/saving game status)

5. Program codes in mulitple files

6. Proper indentation and naming files

7 In-code documentation


## Files

This repository includes three files, namely the source code file, i.e. sonar.cpp, the header file, i.e. sonar.h, and a Makefile.






## Citation

